=head1 NAME

Transposome - Investigate the repeat strucuture of a genome through unassembled sequence reads.

=head1 VERSION

Version 0.01

=head1 INSTALLATION

To install this package, you will first need to install [BLAST+](http://blast.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/Blast.cgi?CMD=Web&PAGE_TYPE=BlastDocs&DOC_TYPE=Download) and [mgblast](http://sourceforge.net/projects/gicl/) (see the Installing dependencies wiki for more information). Next, there are some Perl dependencies that will need to be installed. The recommened method to satisfy the Perl dependencies is to install [cpanminus](http://search.cpan.org/~miyagawa/App-cpanminus-1.6935/lib/App/cpanminus.pm), and run the following command:

    cpanm git://github.com/sestaton/Transposome.git

If you run into any installation issues, it may be necessary to download the code and install manually:

    git clone https://github.com/sestaton/Transposome.git
    cd Transposome
    cpanm --installdeps .
    perl Makefile.PL
    make
    make test
    make install

Updating your installation can be achieved by simply running the same commands.

=head1 BASIC USAGE

Following installation, fill out the sample configuration file in the 'config' directory
in the Transposome distribution, specifying the location of data files and parameters for analysis.

Then, simply run the `transposome` program, specifying your configuration file:

    transposome --config transposome_config.yml

The name of the configuration file does not matter, this is just an example. Though, the format is important. See the [Quick Start](https://github.com/sestaton/Transposome/wiki/Quick-Start) wiki page for more details.

=head1 ADVANCED USAGE

It is possible to run only one part of the Transposome package, the clustering methods for example, or create 
your own analysis methods to plug into Transposome. In addition, you can extend existing methods.

For all available methods, simply type `perldoc` followed by the name of the class you are interested in 
using. For example,

    perldoc Transposome::Cluster

Available classes are: 

    Transposome::Annotation
    Transposome::Cluster
    Transposome::PairFinder
    Transposome::SeqIO
    Transposome::SeqStore
                      

=head1 SUPPORT AND DOCUMENTATION

After installing, you can find documentation for the Transposome package with the
`perldoc` command.

    perldoc Transposome

If you are not interested in using Transposome programmatically or inspecting the class methods, simply type
`perldoc` followed by the name of main program to run the full analysis.

    perldoc transposome 

The `transposome` program will also print a diagnostic help message when executed with no arguments.

You can also look for information at:

    Transposome wiki
        https://github.com/sestaton/Transposome/wiki

    Transposome issue tracker
        https://github.com/sestaton/Transposome/issues

=head1 LICENSE AND COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2013 S. Evan Staton

This program is distributed under the MIT (X11) License:
L<http://www.opensource.org/licenses/mit-license.php>

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person
obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation
files (the "Software"), to deal in the Software without
restriction, including without limitation the rights to use,
copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the
Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following
conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES
OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND
NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT
HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY,
WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

=cut
